let's start with something contentious I
suppose Tammy and I went out on a limb
recently and interviewed Tommy Robinson
I saw I've been I've been watching Tommy
for a long time um and he's struck me as
particularly interesting well for two
reasons is the first reason I suppose is
because he is a genuine workingclass guy
and for better or worse and second
I haven't seen anyone anywhere who's
been more unwavering in his commitment
to reveal the atrocities of the grooming
gangs in the UK which
are act what organized patterns of
activity that are very persuasive that
are so terrible that it's almost
impossible to talk about them without
sounding like a conspiracy theorist so
now there's no doubt that there are many
things that you could accused Tommy
Robinson of and many things many of
those he would admit to but to me and
also to my
wife fair enough um but the fact that
he's pointed his finger at something
that seriously needs to be attended to
and has paid a major price for it is
also not ignorable it's like do we
expect someone who's brave enough to do
that to also be perfect in every regard
that that's asking a bit much given that
there's many people who in principle
have moral characters much more un
unsullied than Tommy Robinson who are
cowering in silence constantly in the
face of this absolute brutal atrocity
and so well so we interviewed him and
what did I think of Tommy he's very
articulate he can certainly make a case
for himself
um and then I thought it was up to the
audience to listen and to make their own
judgment now that was before the recent
March that Robinson and his crew
organized in London which in my
estimation I'm interested in your
perspective went as peacefully and well
as the protests in Ottawa which it was
modeled after and so I thought his crew
handled that extraordinarily well now in
the aftermath of those protests of
course all sorts of chaotic hell has
broken loose and
um well why don't you are much closer to
such things than me I mean being a
Dennis of that country I'm looking from
outside trying to make sense out of it
but my sense at the moment is that the
UK is somewhat of a Tinder Box and so
yes and I wish I wish it hadn't been so
predictable
um I um again I I wrote about this so
many years uh warned about it uh the
strange death of Europe was largely my
last ditch attempt to warn my own
Society of birth and other Western
countries not to go down the path that
they were precisely going
down and as the former government
Minister said in the times a couple of
days ago the thing about my my
predictions on that was that I made them
not with any Glee but in a spirit of
deep lamentation about what was about to
happen to my society and as I see it
there um Tommy Robinson's a very EX
interesting example of of of of this
whole thing but let me just explain
where how I see it the uh this whole
configration of recent days uh started
when a 17-year-old went into a Taylor
Swift dance class A couple weeks ago now
and uh started hacking at young girls
with a knife killed three girls 9year
olds thereabouts wounded many others and
the news of that came out and a very
typical modern British modern European
modern Western thing happened which was
that in the aftermath people started to
suspect something was being kept from
them now wiser heads would wait but not
everyone's a wise head after nyear old
girls are bludgeon to
death um stabbed to death so
false information went out online saying
that the attack was a u had arrived on
one of the many boats of illegal
migrants that come across the English
Channel every every week uh that was
untrue uh in fact he was the son of um
immigrants from Rwanda but people
started to sense that there was a cover
up of some kind or at least the news was
being managed the police in Britain
seemed always think they're being very
clever at this and it's always seemed to
me that they exacerbate every problem
they put their their mind to um they
insisted that the first the young man
was originally from Cardiff uh capital
of Wales and people just sense there
something there something they they're
holding from us sure enough um anyway
the point is is very uh unpleasant ugly
and again evil forces can get Unleashed
at such a Time the spirit of Revenge
and some uh protests started peacefully
at first then some
violent a mosque was targeted nearby and
then violence started to spread out to
other towns then Muslim communities
started to arm up in some cases
literally people turning up uh with
knives to defend their areas um this is
all and maybe it'll die down by the time
this podcast has gone out or maybe it'll
get a lot worse but the one thing you
can say with absolute certainty is it's
not going to go away because all of this
is the consequence of what I call the
problem of primary and secondary
problems the primary problem in the UK
as in Europe in recent years has been
the total unwillingness of the political
and other classes in the UK to address
deep deep concerns of the public and
when people said in recent days how
could anyone leap to such a conclusion
that the attacker would be and you go
because everyone's seen this
before you know people don't actually
forget very fast the media class may but
they don't forget very fast that it's
only seven years ago that uh the son of
Libyan migrants to the UK went and
detonated a suicide bomb at an Ariana
Grande con concert in Manchester
they don't forget fast that three people
who had no right to be in the UK
including one whose Asylum claim had
been rejected but who was nowhere near
being deported went across London Bridge
in 2017 hacking at the throats of
passers by and shouting Al Akbar they
don't forget that they notice it but the
uh the British government and others
have had this very very clear policy
that they don't really know what to do
to tackle that they don't know what to
do really to tackle The Grooming gangs
issue there was another set of
prosecutions the other day and another
uh case is coming to court in the in the
coming weeks you could say well they
clearly do they're using the law but the
but a lot of the public say well not
fast enough and not really there's an
awful lot of rapists still walking
around with girls who are their victims
in the same towns and the government
knows that the public ascribed this to
the government's immigration policies
integration policies but the governments
can't take responsibility for that
because they've made that mistake now
they've they they the the conservative
government that just left power that
said that they would bring migration
down to the tens of thousands a year
left office with net migration of legal
migration at almost 34 of a million a
year which is by the way completely
unsustainable but they just keep doing
it anyway the interesting thing that
Tommy Robinson speaks to and has always
spoken to is um what are you allowed to
do about this or say about this now if
if you're
me for the time being um you're allowed
to write about it sometimes you're
allowed to speak about it sometimes
you're allowed to raise alarms sometimes
you're allowed to speak your mind
somewhat but if you're are a Tommy
Robinson character if you grow up in
luten and you haven't had many
advantages in life and you've had quite
a lot of
disadvantages and you're white in
working class what are you allowed to do
about this what are you allowed to say
about any of this and the government for
decades now has had the attitude you're
not allowed to do anything you're not
allowed to say anything you can't do
anything because if you do we'll call
you a racist and we'll call you far
right and this has all gone on for very
long time well it's an it's an effective
epithet you know like when I first came
across your work and I've seen this
reaction in the depths of my soul to
many people when I first came across
your work which is quite a long time ago
now you know I was leery of it and I
think the reason for that is that it's
something like this it's that there are
a lot of people in the world and I'm not
going to be able to meet all of them or
read all of them or have anything to do
with all of them and now and then some
of them get tarred with some epithet
well the cost to me of accepting that
taring is very low on average because if
I don't pay attention to some person
there's a whole bunch of other people I
could pay attention to so it's not like
the pool of people to attend to
shrinks right so so so and and that
epithet of far right is a very effective
brand of taring and even it it's even
effective among people who are very
skeptical of such things so I'll give
you an example so I talked to Michael
shellenberger after he released the W
path files when he was investigating the
absolute pathological corruption and
Craven cowardice of the of the Cadre who
presented what purport to be the
standard guidelines for enlightened care
to the American Medical ass Association
the American Psychiatric association the
American Psychological Association and
he was appalled at their lack of
competence and their ideological
possession it was another bottomless pit
and I and I asked him how he became
aware of this and he said well one way
was that he had listened to Abigail
shrier and I talk about it I guess it
was 2 years ago when Abigail first put
out her book irreversible damage it was
the first podcast idea
after I'd been so ill and I was
terrified to do it because it was such a
Hot Topic and you know shellenberger
himself said he listened to that podcast
but he really couldn't believe
it you know and that's another example
of the effectiveness of that t yes it's
it's so easy to demolish someone's
reputation and it's especially easy to
demolish a reputation for people who do
not have as it were a backlog of
published work yeah I mean it's
relatively easy but to to weigh up
someone's views and make an estimation
of them if they have seven books to
their name as I do or you know thousands
and thousands of articles but it can't
be the case that only book authors
allowed to say anything about the
disintegration of their
societies it's it's it's not like it
should only be left to people who write
newspaper articles yeah well God no not
that like maybe maybe least of all and
but but but then you go to this question
which as you know has come up in Canada
in recent years and is very live now in
Britain which is what again what are
people allowed to do now obviously by
the way and I'm aware as you always are
of the deep desire of bad faith actors
to seize anything I say in this
discussion and misrepresented so let me
do a very boring piece of throat cing if
I may the idea that people's response to
any problems in their society should be
to go out and commit acts of violence is
obviously insane and
wrong what we're seeing on the streets
of the British cities though raises this
question as I say of if the public keep
saying something to the politicians and
the politicians keep not just ignoring
them but insulting them what are they
allowed to do these people these are
populations that have have every single
election like the rest of the British
people for 20 years they have voted for
Less immigration I've been told that
they'd get it and instead it's just gone
up
[Music]